  ---
  layout: post
  title: "copying is not theft"
  ---

  "copying is not theft" huge fan of nina paley's work, and it's an issue that I care a lot about, so check it out. But today I want to talk about a different kind of copying: copying each others' code.  Plagiarism is bad mmmkay, but I am not talking about taking credit. I am talking about standing on the shoulders of giants. There's also this idea of not wasting brain cycles on problems that have already been solved, which is why we install gems instead of each person who needs them writing them all from scratch.
  The implications are differing in learning situations though. It's important to struggle in order to learn. Cheating, by simply googling and copying the answer, is only cheating oneself. HOWEVER…. I also think that after two days melting your brain on trying to get the same count_elements method to work on an array of hashes with hash arrays hashed inside of arrays, you have reached the limit of learning. The logarithmic curve shows you that continuing to fruitlessly struggle when you are truly in over your head is playing a game of diminishing returns.
  so I went to github, and peeked at my classmates' solutions.
  First let me say that I think there is a right and a wrong way to do this. I wasn't simply copying and pasting their answers and calling it a day. I looked at 5 or 6 different solutions, to see how everyone else was thinking about the problem and how they went about it. My goal wasn't to just be done with the problem, but to enhance my learning. It helped a lot, because rather than being stuck in the mud going nowhere, I actually had fresh ideas, I actually had options. Now I could see several different paths up the mountain, and by going through each solution, line by line, I learned a lot more about how these ugly beasts called hashes work, and what you can and can't do with them, and why certain things are reduandant or unnecessary, vs why other things are succinct and elegant. 
   